people may not realize but grooming
actually helps create a bond between you
and your horse not only that it helps
also to keep the horses coat and skin
healthy and clean in this video I will
be showing you ways in which to groom
clean feet are important to your horses
health so keep them free of dirt and
rocks don't neglect your horse's hooves
they should be picked out daily not just
when you're getting ready to ride the
following video will show you how to
pick out a horse's hooves and the way to
do it correctly when picking out the
horse's hooves you should start from
heel to toe start by picking out the
debris from the cleft which is near the
Frog the triangle part of the horse's
hooves make sure not to touch the Frog
with the hoof pick or pick the Frog
because this is the most sensitive part
of the hoof as you can see now I am
brushing the debris out of the hoof
using the brush and continuing on by
using the hoof pick to pick out all the
dirt after doing this let down your
horse's hoof slowly and gently as you
don't want him to bang it on the hard
concrete floor
you should continue this process for all
four hooves until they're beautiful and
clean like this one
a curry comb is a comb used to loosen
dirt and hair it is used for to loosen
caked mud and dirt rubbing the horse's
skin it should be flexible and not too
hard or sharp as this may hurt or damage
your horse's skin in the following video
I'm going to be showing you how to curry
comb your horse correctly using the
correct techniques and the correct
methods use the rubber or plastic curry
comb to rub the skin in circles or side
to side starting at the top of the neck
and working your way back down go easy
on the sensitive places as this tool
breaks up cake mud and loosens scurf and
rubs and stimulates the skin but it can
be too harsh for some horses don't use a
curry comb on the head or lower legs or
anyplace that is especially sensitive
now let's move on to the dandy brush or
the stiff brush this brush is great for
removing heavy dirt and dried mud as it
is made out of synthetic materials it is
also really good for horses with long
coats or horses that have been in the
paddocks all day isn't they'll be caked
in mud starting at the top of the neck
brushed the coat with the dandy brush in
the direction the hair grows youth short
snappy strokes to get down to the skin
and flick the dirt out the dads brush
takes away the larger grits of dirt
loosened by the curry combing used
before hand you can use this brush on
the body
neck and legs and on the head if your
horse doesn't mind but if you've trimmed
your horse with body clipper then the
Danny brush may be too harsh for him
continue to do this all over his body
until he is clean and shiny
this is called the body brush or the
soft brush if short bristles set close
together to remove dirt dust and scurf
or dried sweat and dandruff from the
coat and the skin it is usually made
from horsehair however this particular
one in this image is made out of
synthetic material it is the best tool
to get the horse really clean as it deep
cleans into the skin into the hairs and
makes your horse's coat shine in the
following video I'm going to be showing
you how to use this brush correctly and
the methods in which to use it with move
in the same direction is with the
flicking brush always with the direction
of growth here though you don't need to
flick the work in even long strokes to
remove all surface dirt from the coat
clean the brush against the rubber curry
every couple of strokes as this is
important because you do not want to
reapply the dirt to a different area of
your horse's body if your horse is still
dirty give it a brush with the same
brush twice as it helps clean your horse
you can continue using this brush to
brush your horse's face however you can
also use a towel like I'm doing in this
video to wipe the nose and the eyes and
the whole face if you'd like the other
options are sponges and cotton pieces as
these both are clean enough and will
help clean your horse's face now I'm
going to show you how to untangle your
horse's mane you start from the top down
to the bottom and keep running your
fingers through every single part
lightly part the hairs as they might get
pulled out if you pull too hard the same
goes for the tail however at this time
don't stand behind your horse as he
might kick you and this might become a
safety issue this helps prepare our
horse's mane and tail for brushing
however you don't always brush if you
want your horses have to be thick or you
want it to grow do not brush it so often
however when you do brush it brush it
like I'm doing in this video
lightly tugging on the brush as you
would brush your own hair if you're a
girl and maybe if you're a guy as well
when brushing the tail make sure you
start from the bottom of the tail and
work your way up as you can see I'm
holding the tail tightly with my left
hand and brushing it with my right only
brushing the part which I'm holding up I
keep working my way up and then I will
be done
the reason I'm holding it is so that if
that I pull out tangles
it won't hurt him and he can't feel it
this way your horse will not get angry
once again stand to the side of your
horse as a maybe safety hazard standing
behind him now your horse is clean and
ready to be tacked up to ride I hope you
enjoyed watching my video and I've hoped
you've learnt something about grooming